[Music]
good evening and welcome to tucker
carlson tonight we want to tell you
about an op-ed that ran in the New York
Times over the weekend you might not
have seen the writer is a law professor
in New York called echo Janka asked a
simple question can my children be
friends with white people you really
asked it and he wasn't optimistic quote
I will teach my boys the lesson
generations-old he wrote I will teach
them to be cautious I will teach them
suspicions I will teach them distrust I
will teach my boys to have profound
doubts that friendship with white people
is possible those doubts mirrored the
writers own as he put it quote history
has provided little reason for people of
color to trust white people that piece
was one of the most popular on the New
York Times website even today was hardly
unusual though go to any liberal web
site salons slate Vox HuffPo and you'll
find similar pieces arguing that an
entire racial group is untrustworthy and
dangerous this is a big change for the
left for most of the 20th century
liberals and it was noble argued that it
was immoral to reward or punish people
based on their skin color individuals
ought to be judged solely by the choices
they make anything less is bigotry
liberals don't say that anymore what
happened
echo Janka is the author that new york
times pcs a professor at shiva
university's Benjamin Cardozo School of
Law and he joins us tonight professor
thanks for coming up thanks for
everything
so what struck me about this piece a
couple of different things but the first
thing was the generalizations about a
racial group based on their race and I
grew up probably not so much older than
you in a world where overt expressions
of that were not acceptable you weren't
allowed to generalize on the basis of
race because the assumption was each
person is an individual and you judge
each person by the choices he or she
makes I don't understand what it became
okay to generalize about racial groups
well I mean it's a to me a strange way
to put the question I mean while it's
the case that we all hope that we can
judged for who we are I think while some
people have the luxury to be raised only
being told to look at individual people
it should be no surprise to you that
black people in particular black men
have been taught forever that they have
to be careful how they behave around
white people that the way they behave
will be interpreted differently that
when they misbehave it'll be punished
differently that if they laugh too loud
if they walk into a nice store so with
all due respect Tucker what was true for
you has never been true for lots of
people well I mean I guess I mean there
are a lot of ways to respond to that one
on a factual basis and in truth in a lot
of places in this country the main
threat that African Americans face is
not from white people as you perfectly
well know but beyond that the idea that
you could understand a person's motive
merely by knowing his race dehumanizes
that person it's the definition of
racism in a you're engaging in it in the
New York Times and nobody says anything
about it and I just felt it was worth
pointing that out and asking you if you
feel it's okay to generalize about
people you've never met about whom you
know nothing beyond what they look like
and say I know who you are what you
believe so I first want to respond to
the the first comment I think is odd not
be let lie while it's true that of
course people of color face threats from
other people of color it's also true
that white people face the overwhelming
threat from white people that is right
people face threats from who they live
beside so I find exactly but it I think
it's fair to point out that we often be
take distasteful and say things like
well the great threat it it does feed a
certain ugly narrative that we don't
want but to your core point why does the
truth ever feed a quote ugly narrative
the truth is worth telling for its own
sake because it's true you're welcome to
tell the truth but it is it is deeply
suspicious that people are so quick to
say things like the main threat facing
African Americans as other African
Americans but you never hear anybody say
the main threat facing white people is
white people right so there is no phrase
why don't I know I mean people say that
I mean I guess that the point is to face
oppression which is a racial group you
face a threat from individuals who've
made individual choices well we should
turn to that but
just in closing I just say we should be
honest and not pretend that there is a
phrase like white on white violence
right that phrase doesn't exist for we
can invent it here but I guess the point
I'm making is that you should never
generalize about people on the basis of
their skin color because it reduces them
to the sum total of their skin color and
again that's the definition of racism
and you're engaging it in this piece and
and I just I don't think it's helpful I
think it's wrong well it so I just
entirely deny that what I said was that
you should generalize and dislike people
because of their skin color what I do
think is true is that in a world in
which things have done ever more
dangerous for people of color it is in
fact the case that that undermines our
ability to trust each other across
racial bounds and here's what's true or
at least here's what I wrote not that
white people aren't unavailable for
friendship but in this world it is up to
our white friends and allies to be sure
to stand up for those who are under
attack if I want to prove that I'm the
kind of person who can be your friend
that means that when something is
actually threatening you I actually have
to be there for you okay but again
you're making generalizations across
racial groups so you say for example I
will have to discuss my boys whether
they can truly be friends with white
people
history has provided a little reason for
people of color to trust white people I
profound doubts that friendship with
white people as possible again I were to
write you know I was mugged as a pizza
delivery boy and I told my children that
they should ever trust anyone who looks
like the people who mugged me that would
be I would never do that I think that
would be immoral but it would be the
definition of racism because I would be
equating the people who mugged me with
everyone else who looks like that I
think if that's the only part of the
article you read it might sound like
that but of course the article has a
much richer argument and the argument I
make is look in a country where it turns
out that when the most vulnerable people
of color under threat those who they
count on are nowhere to be seen
or at least for some group of people and
I speak explicitly about the political
no more in today right so if we have a
president who marshals forces of
hatred and anger and divisiveness and
frankly just danger quite aside from who
he is I'm not particularly interested in
who he is if the people who call
themselves your friends are not going to
push back against that then maybe you
can tell me why it is I should trust
those people so I guess what you're
saying is that people who don't agree
with your politics can't be your friends
which i think is an unfortunate
conclusion to reach but it's different
from the one you articulate here you're
making again for the third time
generalizations based on race and the
truth about the last election is this is
not an offensive Donald Trump merely an
acknowledgment of the fact that he
received more african-american votes in
any Republicans since 2004 to get 8% of
african-american men so that's not a
huge number but that's that's thousands
of people are they in the same category
too can you not trust them I mean I
don't really understand if you're saying
Trump voters fine white people I mean
that's a grotesque generalization I'm a
little worried that you keep reading the
same parts without I mean you would make
it seem as though the entire piece was
just that paragraph so the piece goes on
to say title of the piece and it's in
four separate graphs yeah so I have no
problem standing behind the title of the
piece but it is worth pointing out as I
have again and again what the piece says
is when those who count themselves as
your friend see that others put you in
danger right it is their opportunity to
prove they're your friend and if we have
a pool
let's be let's just speak plainly about
this Tucker you have children like I do
right I do and if your daughters were I
don't know friendly with a group of
people and it just turned out that
repeatedly when they went out and your
daughters were in danger those group of
young men just disappeared I think at
some point you tell your daughters look
it's fine to be friendly with them but
these are not your friends because I'm
not a racist what I wouldn't say is
anybody of a certain race falls into
that category I would never do that
again
if one of my daughter's was mugged by
someone of a certain color I would never
say to my daughter that's more evidence
you can never trust anyone who looks
like that because I would be inculcating
race hatred in my children anymore so
what I well I mean obviously I deny that
look what I said over and over was
we live in a country where we ought and
pretend that these divides have not
consistently been on racial grounds and
we see that over and over and over when
black people are in danger when yeah
when black people are in danger from say
addiction we get policing when white
people are in danger from diction they
get rehabilitation when black people
don't have jobs we get stories about why
we're making the wrong choices when
white people's don't have jobs we get a
presidential campaign about the
Forgotten class except them I'm gonna go
ahead and I'll finish and then I'm happy
to hear your point of view so if it's
the case that we live in a country where
these divides have always consisted in
racial then I think it's not only
delusional but it would be dangerous of
me not to teach my boys that when they
walk out in the world there'll be a
world that treats them differently
should I say the same thing to my
children yeah your african-american law
professors who dislike you because of
your color and you should dislike him
back no at all african-american law
professor I would never say that because
that's grotesque but again it's it's
race hatred so I mean you you keep
saying the same thing and I keep trying
to say because I can't get past it yeah
apparently so what I've said over and
over is look what matters when people
are in danger if you're going to say
that you're the kind of person they can
trust as a friend is you have to step up
and when it's the case that these
friendship lines break down on racial
lines then it's your turn to step up
because of these racial lines so if I
know that in my school there's a tense
point because everybody hates the
Filipino student when the Filipino
student walks into my area I'm going to
make sure that he knows I'm an ally I'm
not going to disappear when he's in
danger and now I didn't play keep myself
by saying I'm his friend no no but I
agree with you it's when you implicate
people you don't know simply because if
I have a look that you crossed the line
let me just ask you in a line on a
question let you answer it quickly which
is how would you feel if I told my
children in an op-ed in the New York
Times what you told your children but
the colors will reverse
thank you sir can I ask you a question
of course
will you teach your girls to be cautious
around men until they prove that they
are men that can be trusted men but not
men of a certain race because I because
I don't think that the races are as
different as you think they are you
think one is good and what is evil
that's what I'm said in your piece I
didn't at all say that in peace and if
you can cite that I'd be very happy to
see it but trust them and I think making
a headway but I'm gonna give you I asked
you a question can you answer that no
forgive me you asked me a question and I
returned the question so I want to
conclude on that look in the same way
that you will teach your daughters to be
careful around men until they prove that
they can be gentlemen if somebody said
oh my god that's outrageous tucker
carlson is teaching his daughters that
men are evil that would be laughable
your grace forgive me no no you forgive
me because we acknowledge differences
between the sexes but not significant
ones between the races and so that's
that citizen what you're doing I don't
think it's off isn't about I play I find
it remarkable that you can live in the
America we live in and pretend that we
oughtn't see that racial lines are
that's not what I was saying I said
would you be okay with me writing this
piece to my children if the races were
reversed because the feds a question
because the facts are different
currently Tucker he said because one guy
no one's good
all right god that's that's absurd if I
don't teach my boys how to be cautious
how to be careful how to be perceived in
the right way all right I'm not just
risking their feelings being hurt I'm
risking their bodies being did I teach
my kids that you don't teach your
daughters to be cautious until they can
be sure that the men around them are
trustworthy it's not that's not what the
conversation is about it's not about sex
it's about race right so I don't serve
them that they owe them to be sure is
between the races so to be sure so to be
sure it's fine for you to care for your
daughters and make sure that they're
healthy and well but if I care for my
sons
ladies and gentlemen we're out of time
thank you professor I appreciate it
you're coming on and explaining that
thank you